Code Book to accompany the dataset set_mean.txt generated by the run_analysis.R script 
from the UCI Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set.

ORIGIN OF THE DATASET

Description: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones
Actual data: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

Note: The script only utilises the features derived from the actual data, and does not read the
original data from the axis of the accelerometers and gyroscopes.

INPUT DATA SET

The input data set is expected to be in a directory named "UCI HAR Dataset" located in the current working directory.
It reads the following files from the directory:

activity_labels.txt - a file containing the labels for the activities
features.txt - a file containing the feature names of the train and test measurement data files
train/subject_train.txt - A file containing the subject from whom the measurements in the train data files originate
train/y_train.txt - A file containing the (coded) activities in the train measurement data file
train/X_train.txt - A file containing the derived features from the train measurement data
test/subject_test.txt - A file containing the subject from whom the measurements in the test data files originate
test/y_test.txt - A file containing the (coded) activities in the test measurement data file
test/X_test.txt - A file containing the derived features from the test measurement data

CONTENTS OF THE OUTPUT FILE

The data set contained in the "set_mean.txt" file contains the average of all variables in the feature set labled
"mean" or "std" (standard deviation) for each subject and activity. The variables are listed in the columns of the
dataset and contain the following information:

Activity - The activity performed during the measurement. A factor with lables LAYING, SITTING, STANDING, WALKING, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, WALKING_UPSTAIRS
Subject - The subject performing the activity. A number ranging from 1 to 30
All subsequent variables: The average of the given feature for a specific subject and activity. Double

These variables provide information on the mean or standard deviation (std) of a specific feature on a certain axis (X, Y, Z).
For more information on these variables, please see the original documentation

OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE SCRIPT

The script performs the following operations on the data:

The data in X_train.txt is combined with the activity (y_train.txt) and subject (subject_train.txt) data to form a table
with Activity and Subject as first columns, followed by the original columns of the X_train set, whose labels are read
from the features.txt file and slightly tidied by removing empty brackets. During the process, the
activities are encoded with a factor utilising the information in activity_labels.txt.
The test dataset likewise combines X_test.txt, y_test.txt and subject_text.txt.

The train and test data sets resulting from these combination processes are subsequently merged to form one uniform set.

The combined data set is purged from any columns that do not have "mean" or "std" in the column variable name.

Finally the purged data set is grouped by Activity and Subject and the mean is calculated for each variable.

The resulting data set is written to a file named "set_mean.txt" and printed to the console.
  
 